README.md, before:

PMW3610 driver implementation for ZMK

This work is based on [ufan's zmk pixart sensor drivers](https://github.com/ufan/zmk/tree/support-trackpad) and [inorichi's zmk-pmw3610-driver](https://github.com/inorichi/zmk-pmw3610-driver).

#### What is different to [inorichi's driver](https://github.com/inorichi/zmk-pmw3610-driver)
- Compatible to be used on split peripheral shield. (major reason of all changes)
- Replaced `CONFIG_PMW3610_ORIENTATION_*` with `CONFIG_PMW3610_SWAP_XY` and `PMW3610_INVERT_*`. Then now, it can use for building conventional palm-gripping mouse.
- Features for scroll-mode, snipe-mode, and auto-layer no longer needed to be provided from sensor driver. Those settings is now configurable in keymap file with layer-based behavioral input listener module ([zmk-input-behavior-listener](https://github.com/badjeff/zmk-input-behavior-listener)), instead of setup static value in shield config files.
- Seperating sampling rate and reporting rate. It reports accumulated XY axes displacement between data ready interrupts. You will still feeling lag and jumpy in noisy radio hell, but the cursor traction should being lossless, and predicable in exact terms.
- Default to use power saving config. Applying shorter-than-default downshift time to PMW3610.

## Installation

Include this project on ZMK's west manifest in `config/west.yml`:

```yml
manifest:
  remotes:
    - name: zmkfirmware
      url-base: https://github.com/petejohanson
    - name: badjeff
      url-base: https://github.com/badjeff
  projects:
    - name: zmk
      remote: zmkfirmware
      revision: feat/pointers-move-scroll
      import: app/west.yml
    - name: zmk-pmw3610-driver
      remote: badjeff
      revision: main
  self:
    path: config
```

Update `board.overlay` adding the necessary bits (update the pins for your board accordingly):

```dts
&pinctrl {
    spi0_default: spi0_default {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_SCK, 0, 8)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MOSI, 0, 17)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MISO, 0, 17)>;
        };
    };

    spi0_sleep: spi0_sleep {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_SCK, 0, 8)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MOSI, 0, 17)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MISO, 0, 17)>;
            low-power-enable;
        };
    };
};

&spi0 {
    status = "okay";
    compatible = "nordic,nrf-spim";
    pinctrl-0 = <&spi0_default>;
    pinctrl-1 = <&spi0_sleep>;
    pinctrl-names = "default", "sleep";
    cs-gpios = <&gpio0 20 GPIO_ACTIVE_LOW>;

    trackball: trackball@0 {
        status = "okay";
        compatible = "pixart,pmw3610";
        reg = <0>;
        spi-max-frequency = <2000000>;
        irq-gpios = <&gpio0 6 (GPIO_ACTIVE_LOW | GPIO_PULL_UP)>;
        cpi = <600>;
        evt-type = <INPUT_EV_REL>;
        x-input-code = <INPUT_REL_X>;
        y-input-code = <INPUT_REL_Y>;
    };
};

/ {
  trackball_listener {
    compatible = "zmk,input-listener";
    device = <&trackball>;
  };
};
```

Enable the driver config in `<shield>.config` file (read the Kconfig file to find out all possible options):

```conf
CONFIG_SPI=y
CONFIG_INPUT=y
CONFIG_ZMK_MOUSE=y
CONFIG_PMW3610=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_SWAP_XY=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_INVERT_X=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_INVERT_Y=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_REPORT_INTERVAL_MIN=12
# CONFIG_PMW3610_LOG_LEVEL_DBG=y
```

Commit message:

Update readme. Added zmk-split-peripheral-input-relay hyperlink

README.md, after:

PMW3610 driver implementation for ZMK

This work is based on [ufan's zmk pixart sensor drivers](https://github.com/ufan/zmk/tree/support-trackpad) and [inorichi's zmk-pmw3610-driver](https://github.com/inorichi/zmk-pmw3610-driver).

#### What is different to [inorichi's driver](https://github.com/inorichi/zmk-pmw3610-driver)
- Compatible to be used on split peripheral shield with [zmk-split-peripheral-input-relay](https://github.com/badjeff/zmk-split-peripheral-input-relay) module.
- Replaced `CONFIG_PMW3610_ORIENTATION_*` with `CONFIG_PMW3610_SWAP_XY` and `PMW3610_INVERT_*`. Then now, it can use for building conventional palm-gripping mouse.
- Features for scroll-mode, snipe-mode, and auto-layer no longer needed to be provided from sensor driver. Those settings is now configurable in keymap file with layer-based behavioral input listener module ([zmk-input-behavior-listener](https://github.com/badjeff/zmk-input-behavior-listener)), instead of setup static value in shield config files.
- Seperating sampling rate and reporting rate. It reports accumulated XY axes displacement between data ready interrupts. You will still feeling lag and jumpy in noisy radio hell, but the cursor traction should being lossless, and predicable in exact terms.
- Default to use power saving config. Applying shorter-than-default downshift time to PMW3610.

## Installation

Include this project on ZMK's west manifest in `config/west.yml`:

```yml
manifest:
  remotes:
    - name: zmkfirmware
      url-base: https://github.com/petejohanson
    - name: badjeff
      url-base: https://github.com/badjeff
  projects:
    - name: zmk
      remote: zmkfirmware
      revision: feat/pointers-move-scroll
      import: app/west.yml
    - name: zmk-pmw3610-driver
      remote: badjeff
      revision: main
  self:
    path: config
```

Update `board.overlay` adding the necessary bits (update the pins for your board accordingly):

```dts
&pinctrl {
    spi0_default: spi0_default {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_SCK, 0, 8)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MOSI, 0, 17)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MISO, 0, 17)>;
        };
    };

    spi0_sleep: spi0_sleep {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_SCK, 0, 8)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MOSI, 0, 17)>,
                <NRF_PSEL(SPIM_MISO, 0, 17)>;
            low-power-enable;
        };
    };
};

&spi0 {
    status = "okay";
    compatible = "nordic,nrf-spim";
    pinctrl-0 = <&spi0_default>;
    pinctrl-1 = <&spi0_sleep>;
    pinctrl-names = "default", "sleep";
    cs-gpios = <&gpio0 20 GPIO_ACTIVE_LOW>;

    trackball: trackball@0 {
        status = "okay";
        compatible = "pixart,pmw3610";
        reg = <0>;
        spi-max-frequency = <2000000>;
        irq-gpios = <&gpio0 6 (GPIO_ACTIVE_LOW | GPIO_PULL_UP)>;
        cpi = <600>;
        evt-type = <INPUT_EV_REL>;
        x-input-code = <INPUT_REL_X>;
        y-input-code = <INPUT_REL_Y>;
    };
};

/ {
  trackball_listener {
    compatible = "zmk,input-listener";
    device = <&trackball>;
  };
};
```

Enable the driver config in `<shield>.config` file (read the Kconfig file to find out all possible options):

```conf
CONFIG_SPI=y
CONFIG_INPUT=y
CONFIG_ZMK_MOUSE=y
CONFIG_PMW3610=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_SWAP_XY=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_INVERT_X=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_INVERT_Y=y
# CONFIG_PMW3610_REPORT_INTERVAL_MIN=12
# CONFIG_PMW3610_LOG_LEVEL_DBG=y
```
